Protractor Training: By Phaniraj.
e2e Testing of ur applications. 
Protractor is based on JS and performs various features using ES5 and ES6.
JS programming language is maintained thro stds defined by ECMA. 
Javascript:
Simplified programming language. Runs only in a browser..
The code of Js is placed within the HTML tags. U need an interpretor to interpret the code of the JS and generate the required DOM structure. 
JS contains lot of global functions that can be used for UR Application UI interaction. alert, Prompt and confirm functions helps in interacting with the user using UI elements.  
There are many such global functions that can be used for developing dynamic pages in JS....

U create functions in JS if U want to semantically group a set of statements for better modularity. If those statements are repeatedly used in UR Program, u could make it as a function. 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Nodejs: Framework for developing components in JS out of browser. It means that U can run any JS code thro Nodejs from a non browser setup. It leads to develop JS based Applications that can run any device without a need of a browser. Even if this device has a basic OS with support of Nodejs installed....
Nodejs uses the Chrome's V8 JS engine for interpreting JS code. It is an non-blocking event loop single threaded Environment. It uses Async callback functions to perform non blocking operations. ThreadPool of the V8 engine willbe used to invoke the functions in an asynchronous manner. No blocking functions are available in Nodejs. Prompt, alert, confirm is not allowed in Nodejs.... 

If a created module has to be exported to a larger audience, U could place the code in the npm repository. node package manager is a large repository of node modules that developers can share and consume external modules. Major domain specific modules are available thro npm only. npm needs a registered user to allow adding and removing the modules. modulenames are to be unique for the repository...
npm is available to u when U install nodejs. 
//first make UR module a node package.: A node module accompanied with a package.json will make it a node package. use command: npm init to create a package.json.

//thro command prompt create the user for login into the npm
//publish Ur module to the npm....


